<p>The standard PRZM-EXAMS runoff modeling scenario captures the properties and
dimensions of an agricultural field draining into water bodies for subsequent drinking water safety
and aquatic exposure assessments. PRZM links two subordinate models (PRZM per se and
VADOFT), that combine differing root zone and vadose zone characteristics into a single simulation
to predict pesticide transport and transformation in the crop root and unsaturated zones, and edge-of-
field losses in runoff waters and eroded sediment. Each PRZM modeling scenario represents a
unique combination of climatic conditions, crop-specific management practices, specific soil
properties, site-specific hydrology, and pesticide-specific application and dissipation (fate and
transport) processes. Each PRZM simulation is conducted for multiple years (usually 30, spanning
the years 1961-1990) using historical weather data (Burns 2001) to provide a probabilistic exposure
characterization for a single site. Daily edge-of-field loadings of pesticides dissolved in runoff waters
and sorbed to entrained sediment, as predicted by PRZM, are discharged into a standard water
body simulated by the EXAMS model. The EXAMS model accounts for subsequent hydrologic
transport, volatilization, sorption, hydrolysis, biodegradation, and photolysis of the pesticide.</p>

<p>PRZM-EXAMS is designed to facilitate a
rapid and consistent assessment of aquatic pesticide exposure on a variety of
crops. EXPRESS is a joint endeavor of the USEPA Office of Pesticide Programs
(OPP) and the USEPA Office of Research and Development (ORD). The first
draft of the software was developed by OPP/EFED via contract. OPP retains
responsibility for development and maintenance of the crop-specific modeling
scenarios. ORD continues development,maintenance and public availability of the
Express software and its constituent models. EXPRESS has not yet,
be it noted, been certified by OPP for routine use in regulatory analyses.</p>
