


U.S. Geological Survey                                 libanne(1)



NAME
     libanne - A collection of related libraries for use in
           hydrologic applications

           See these individual libraries for more information:

           aide(1)  - ANNIE Interactive Development Environment
                      (character based)
           graph(1) - interface to Graphical Kernel System (GKS)
           util(1)  - manipulating character strings, numbers,
           and dates
           wdm(1)   - Watershed Data Management (WDM) file system


ABSTRACT
     A collection of related libraries that provides a data base
     (WDM), graphics, and interactive user interface (AIDE) for
     hydrologic applications.  These libraries have been used
     with a number of applications, including BRANCH, DAFLOW,
     DR3M, HSPF, PRMS (WDM and UTIL), ANNIE, GLSNET, HSPEXP,
     PEAKFQ, SWSTAT (AIDE, WDM, GRAPH, and UTIL), and IOWDM
     (AIDE, WDM, and UTIL).  The ADWDM library contains routines
     shared by the WDM and AIDE libraries.

     Routines for interactively displaying, manipulating, and
     statistically analyzing data stored in WDM files are
     contained in the WAIDE, ANN, STATS, and AWSTAT libraries.
     These libraries, previously distributed as part of the lib
     library distribution, are now distributed as libanne.

     Routines for HSPEXP, HSPF, and other programs are contained
     in the HSPF, NEWAQT, and HSPNODSS libraries.  These
     libraries, previously distributed as part of the lib library
     distribution, are now distributed as libhsp.  Libraries
     contained in the libanne distribution are still needed for
     these programs.


HISTORY
     Version 4.0 2002/02/25 - The name of the lib library
        distribution changed to libanne.  The libraries specific
        to hspf (hspf, newaqt, and hspnodss) that were a part of
        lib are now found in the libhsp distribution.  A problem
        with small negative numbers in export files has been
        resolved.  Some new routines added to library and some
        code rearranged.  Miscellaneous minor corrections and
        cleanups.  Added attributes DATCRE, DATMOD, P1.5, P2.33,
        L07050, L07100, and L04003.  All wdm data sets will now
        contain the date the data set was created and the date it
        was last modified.  Resolved conflict introduced by
        GenScn program between index numbers used for DATCRE and
        DATMOD and for SEADBG and SEADND.  Fixed problems in



                  Last change: 02 February 2002                 1






U.S. Geological Survey                                 libanne(1)



        frequency code with maximum number of plot files that can
        be produced and with images being drawn too big for the
        page.  wdmrx enhanced to check for problems in wdm files
        and, when possible, to resolve them.  For time series
        data sets where data was stored in the last data group,
        some applications were unable to read that data, this has
        been corrected.  For any type of data set, when any
        application attempted to store an attribute value in the
        last available space in the data set, the library was
        incorrectly reporting no available space, this has been
        corrected.



     Version 3.2 1998/06/29 - Modified import utility (wdimpt.f)
        to correctly read in export files.  With version 3.2
        dated 1998/03/06, exported data files could have data
        values in 12-character fields, but only 11 of these
        characters were being read.  This has been fixed.

     Version 3.2 1998/03/06 - Modified util/utdate.f to correct
        problem with determining the earliest or latest date from
        an array of dates.  Modified wdm/wdimpt.f to clarify a
        warning message.  Modified hspf/posvm.inc, which had a
        dimension that limited the number of quality constituents
        that could be modeled.  Modified adwdm/attr251.seq and
        attr401.seq for changes related to swstat program.
        Modified wdm/wdexpt.f to change the precision of data
        values exported from wdm time-series data sets.  Modified
        awstat/tscmpr.f to correctly calculate total mean
        absolute error and root mean square error (both
        percents).

     Version 3.1 1996/12/11 - In UTIL, corrected how function
        CNVTDG converted degree-minute-second latitudes and
        longitudes to decimal degrees.  In WDM, added new
        subroutine WDBSGL to retrieve latitude and longitude from
        a data set.

     Version 3.0 1996/03/01 - Include file names changed to lower
        case.  In UTIL, renamed routines that return current date
        and time, date, and time to SYDATM, SYDATE, and SYTIME,
        respectively (had been DATNOW, JULDAT, and GETIME). In
        WDM, corrected the valid minimum for attribute JANMIN
        (changed from 0.0 to no lower limit). In AIDE, increased
        maximum number of fields on a screen from 60 to 180.
        File type data field added.

     Version 2.1 1994/08/11 - Updates.

     Version 2.0 1994/05/27 - General release.




                  Last change: 02 February 2002                 2






U.S. Geological Survey                                 libanne(1)



     Version 1.0 1992 - General release, ported to UNIX platform.

     NOTE: Version numbers and dates are for the entire LIBANNE
           set of libraries.  A new version does not necessarily
           indicate that all of the libraries have changed.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
     UTIL, ADWDM, WDM, AIDE, STATS, and GRAPH are written in
     Fortran 77 with the following extension: use of include
     files. A few routines used for screen addressing and file
     access are platform specific (AIDE, ADWDM, and UTIL); these
     routines use Posix-compliant (ANSI C and (or) compiler-
     supplied extensions to Fortran (Lahey and OTG versions
     provided). The UTIL library contains three routines that
     call date and (or) time routines, versions for several
     compilers are provided.

     The graph library is written using the Graphical Kernel
     System (GKS); a user-supplied GKS library is required to
     build the library. A set of routines that translates the GKS
     calls to Interactive Software Services' INTERACTER calls is
     provided.

     The WDM and AIDE libraries require the ADWDM and UTIL
     libraries.  The GRAPH library requires STATS and UTIL
     libraries.

     ANN, AWSTAT, and WAIDE are written in Fortran 77 with the
     following extension: use of include files.  These libraries
     require the GRAPH, STATS, AIDE, WDM, ADWDM, and UTIL
     libraries in LIBANNE.

     HSPF, NEWAQT, and HSPNODSS are written in Fortran 77 with
     the following extension: use of include files. The HSPF
     library requires the WDM, ADWDM, UTIL, and HSPNODSS
     libraries in LIBANNE. The HSPNODSS library requires the HSPF
     library. The NEWAQT library requires the HSPF, AWSTAT, ANN,
     WAIDE, GRAPH, WDM, ADWDM, and UTIL libraries.

DOCUMENTATION
     Subroutine reference guides are provided in the
     distribution.

     Kittle, J.L., Jr., Hummel, P.R., and Imhoff, J.C., 1989,
        ANNIE-IDE, A system for developing interactive user
        interfaces for environmental models (programmers guide):
        U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA/600/3-89/034,
        Environmental Research Laboratory, Athens, Ga., 166 p.

SUPPORTING SOFTWARE
     The GRAPH library is written using the GKS standard.  An
     implementation of GKS is required for the UNIX platform.



                  Last change: 02 February 2002                 3






U.S. Geological Survey                                 libanne(1)



     The PC version includes a set of routines that translate GKS
     calls to Interactive Software Services's INTERACTER calls.

     GKS libraries are available from a number of vendors.  Free
     or shareware versions are available via anonymous ftp to:

        ftp.zam.kfa-juelich.de in /pub/unix/graphics/gligks
                                   gligks-4.5.[17 18].tar.gz
                                  (works under linux, sun, aix,
     osf,
                                   pc (Lahey FORTRAN))

        unidata.ucar.edu in /pub/xgks


CONTACTS
     Operation and Distribution:
        U.S. Geological Survey
        Hydrologic Analysis Software Support Program
        437 National Center
        Reston, VA 20192

        h2osoft@usgs.gov

     Official versions of U.S. Geological Survey water-resources
     analysis software are available for electronic retrieval via
     the World Wide Web (WWW) at:

                http://water.usgs.gov/software/

     and via anonymous File Transfer Protocol (FTP) from:

                water.usgs.gov (path: /pub/software).

     The WWW page and anonymous FTP directory from which the
     LIBANNE software can be retrieved are, respectively:

                http://water.usgs.gov/software/libanne.html
                              --and--
                /pub/software/general/libanne

     The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency documentation is
     available from:
        National Center for Environmental Publications
           and Information (NCEPI)
        P.O. Box 42419
        Cincinnati, OH 45242
        (513) 489-8190
        (513) 489-8695 (Fax)






                  Last change: 02 February 2002                 4



