


U.S. Geological Survey                                     wdm(1)



NAME
     wdm - Watershed Data Management file system

ABSTRACT
     The Watershed Data Management (WDM) system provides a
     systematic approach to the storage and retrieval of data
     required to operate hydrologic, hydraulic, and water-quality
     models.  The WDM system uses a well-defined binary, direct-
     access file structure accessed through a library of routines
     to create a file, add data to the file, replace data in the
     file, get data from the file and delete data from the file.
     Five categories of data may be stored in WDM file data sets:
     time series, tables, text, vectors, and space-time.  A
     comprehensive set of attributes is available for documenting
     and describing individual data sets.

     The WDM library of routines enables expedient input, update,
     and output of data.  WDM files allow comprehensive
     specification of data attributes, multiple time steps in
     single time-series data sets, user-defined formats for data
     stored as tables, compression of data, improved speed and
     flexibility of interaction between a model and its data
     base, and automatic file maintenance as the user adds,
     modifies, or deletes data sets.  The WDM system allows
     multiple models, requiring different data types and data
     with different time steps, to use a common data base.

     The WDM library is included in the LIBANNE distribution.  It
     requires the UTIL and ADWDM libraries from the LIBANNE
     distribution.

METHOD
     A WDM file is a binary, direct-access file used to store
     hydrologic, hydraulic, meteorologic, water-quality, and
     physiographic data.  The WDM file is organized into data
     sets.  Each data set contains a specific type of data, such
     as streamflow at a specific site or air temperature at a
     weather station.  Each data set contains attributes that
     describe the data, such as station identification number,
     time step of data, latitude, and longitude.  A WDM file may
     contain a single data set or as many as 200,000 data sets.
     A data set may be described by a few attributes or by
     hundreds of attributes.  Data can be added, deleted, and
     modified without restructuring the data in the file.  Space
     from deleted data sets is reused.

HISTORY
     The original design and implementation of time-series data
     sets in the WDM file was a cooperative effort between the
     USGS and the Soil Conservation Service in 1983.  The USGS
     and EPA have implemented the tables, text, vectors, and
     space-time data sets since then.  Originally implemented on



                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 1






U.S. Geological Survey                                     wdm(1)



     Prime and Vax minicomputers and MS-DOS compatible personal
     computers (1983-1991).

     Version 4.0  2002/02/25 - The name of the lib library
        distribution changed to libanne.  See libanne
        documentation for details.

     Version 3.1 1996/12/11 - Added new subroutine WDBSGL to
        retrieve latitude and longitude from a data set.

     Version 3.0 1996/03/01 - Include file names changed to lower
        case.  Corrected the valid minimum for attribute JANMIN
        (changed from 0.0 to no lower limit).

     Version 2.1 1994/08/11 - Updates

     Version 2.0 1994/05/27 - General release

     Version 1.0 1992 - General release, ported to UNIX platform.

     NOTE:  Version numbers and dates are for the entire set of
           libraries.  A new version does not necessarily
           indicate that the WDM library has been changed.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
     WDM is written in Fortran 77 with the following extension:
     use of include files. The WDM library requires the ADWDM and
     UTIL libraries.

APPLICATIONS
     The WDM file was initially created for use by the program
     ANNIE for storage, manipulation, graphical display, and
     statistical analysis of watershed data.  With the
     implementation of other programs capable of accessing data
     stored in WDM files, each WDM file serves as a common data
     base from which data are shared among multiple applications
     and across different computer platforms.  Examples of
     programs using WDM files include DR3M, HSPF, PRMS, and
     SWSTAT, which performs the statistical analyses previously
     found in ANNIE.

DOCUMENTATION
     A subroutine reference guide is provided with the
     distribution.

     Lumb, A.M., Carsel, R.F., and Kittle, J.L., Jr., 1988, Data
        management for water-quality modeling development and
        use:  Proceedings of the International Conference on
        Interactive Information and Processing Systems for
        Meteorology, Oceanography, and Hydrology.





                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 2






U.S. Geological Survey                                     wdm(1)



REFERENCES
     Flynn, K.M., Hummel, P.R., Lumb, A.M., and Kittle, J.L.,
        Jr., 1995, User's manual for ANNIE, version 2, a computer
        program for interactive hydrologic data management:  U.S.
        Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report
        95-4085, 211 p.

     Landers, M.N., Mueller, D.S., and Martin, G.R., 1996, Bridge
        scour data management system user's manual: U.S.
        Geological Survey Open-File Report 95-754, 72 p.

     Lumb, A.M., McCammon, R.B., and Kittle, J.L., Jr., 1994,
        Users manual for an expert system (HSPEXP) for
        calibration of the Hydrologic Simulation
        Program--Fortran:  U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources
        Investigations Report 94-4168, 102 p.

CONTACTS
     Operation and Distribution:
        U.S. Geological Survey
        Hydrologic Analysis Software Support Program
        437 National Center
        Reston, VA 20192

        h2osoft@usgs.gov

     Official versions of U.S. Geological Survey water-resources
     analysis software are available for electronic retrieval via
     the World Wide Web (WWW) at:

                http://water.usgs.gov/software/

     and via anonymous File Transfer Protocol (FTP) from:

                water.usgs.gov (path: /pub/software).

     The WWW page and anonymous FTP directory from which the
     LIBANNE software can be retrieved are, respectively:

                http://water.usgs.gov/software/libanne.html
                              --and--
                /pub/software/general/libanne













                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 3



