<p>The Exposure and Fate Assessment Screening Tool (EFAST), Version 2.0, also known as E-FAST V2.0, is a screening-level computer tool that allows users to estimate chemical concentrations in water to which aquatic life may be exposed, as well as generate human inhalation, drinking water ingestion, and fish ingestion exposures resulting from chemical releases to air, water, and land. In addition, E-FAST V2.0 identifies endangered species in the vicinity of releases at known locations—“site-specific” releases. EFAST V2.0 also may be used to assess inhalation and dermal exposures to chemicals that may result from the use of certain types of consumer products. The exposed populations assessed by the model are either some segment of the general population or consumers. Worker exposures are not assessed in this model. The exposure scenarios in E-FAST V2.0 contain default exposure parameter values that allow the exposures to be estimated with minimal data entry. Because E-FAST V2.0 incorporates defaults of either a combination of upper percentile and mean exposure parametric values or all upper percentile parametric values, the exposure/dose estimates are considered to be high-end estimates.</p>

<p>E-FAST V2.0 was developed to support U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) assessments of potential exposures to chemicals. Screening-level models are rarely if ever used as the sole justification for regulatory decision-making at EPA. Additional data and more rigorous tools are used to improve the estimates of exposures and risks for such decisions. Thus, the model’s results may not accurately reflect all of the information and data used by EPA to make a regulatory decision on a chemical.</p>

<p>E-FAST V2.0 is appropriate for use as a screening tool to assess potential exposures from chemical discharges to air (stack or fugitive releases), surface water, or land. E-FAST V2.0 can also be used to estimate potential inhalation and dermal exposures to consumer products, such as hard surface cleaners, soaps, air fresheners, paints, gasoline, and motor oil.</p>